Honey soy baked chicken thighs
https://cafedelites.com/honey-soy-baked-chicken-thighs
INGREDIENTS
1/3 cup honey
1/4 cup low sodium soy sauce
1/4 cup finely chopped green onions
2 tablespoons cooking oil vegetable oil or canola oil
1 1/2 tablespoons garlic minced (or 4 large cloves garlic, minced)
1 tablespoon white vinegar (apple cider or rice wine vinegar -- OPTIONAL)
1 teaspoon sesame oil OPTIONAL
3/4 teaspoon fresh minced ginger
2 1/2 pounds (1.2 kg) chicken thighs (skinless, boneless)
Salt and pepper to season
Fresh chopped parsley to garnish
INSTRUCTIONS
In a shallow bowl, combine honey, soy sauce, green onions, cooking oil, garlic, vinegar, sesame oil and ginger. Mix well and set aside.
Pat chicken dry with paper towel. Trim off any excess fat. Season with salt and pepper then transfer chicken to the bowl with the marinade. Cover and marinade chicken for at least 30 minutes if time allows (or overnight).
Preheat the oven to 425°F (220°C).
Transfer chicken along with the marinade to a cast iron skillet or baking dish. Bake for 20-25 minutes, flipping twice while baking to ensure the chicken doesn't dry out on top.
Broil for 5 minutes at high heat until golden browned and slightly charred on the edges. Chicken should have an internal temp of 165°F (or 70°C).
Garnish with parsley and optional sesame seeds.
Serve chicken with pan juices over steamed rice, cauliflower rice, zucchini noodles, regular noodles or mashed potatoes.

- good on BBQ too


Korean ground beef and rice bowls
https://therecipecritic.com/korean-ground-beef-rice-bowls/
INGREDIENTS
1 pound lean ground beef 90% lean
3 garlic cloves minced
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
1/4 cup reduced-sodium soy sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
1/4 teaspoon pepper
2 cups hot cooked white or brown rice
sliced green onions and sesame seeds for garnish
INSTRUCTIONS
In a large skillet cook the ground beef and garlic breaking it into crumbles over medium heat until no longer pink.
In a small bowl whisk brown sugar, soy sauce, sesame oil, ginger, red pepper flakes and pepper. Pour over the ground beef and let simmer for another minute or two.
Serve over hot rice and garnish with green onions and sesame seeds.

- can usually get away with less sugar, it's pretty sweet as-is


Creamy skillet tortellini with sweet potato and spinach
https://www.thekitchn.com/recipe-creamy-skillet-tortellini-with-sweet-potato-and-spinach-225241
INGREDIENTS
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 large sweet potato (about 3/4 to 1 pound), peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 tablespoon minced fresh rosemary
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 cup chicken or vegetable broth
1 (5-ounce) bag baby spinach or 1 large bunch spinach, rinsed and torn into bite-sized pieces
1/2 cup half-and-half
1 (12-ounce) bag frozen cheese tortellini
INSTRUCTIONS
Heat the oil in a heavy-bottomed 10- or 12-inch skillet over medium heat.
Stir in the sweet potato cubes, rosemary, salt, and pepper. Cover the skillet and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 5 minutes, until the sweet potatoes are just starting to soften.
Uncover the skillet and add the broth, scraping the bottom of the pan with a spatula to dissolve the browned bits. Add the spinach in handfuls, stirring until it wilts down, before adding more.
Stir in the half-and-half, then cover once more and bring the liquid to a simmer.
Uncover and stir in the tortellini. Cook, stirring frequently, for 10 to 15 minutes, until the tortellini are plump and cooked through.
Serve immediately.

- sweet potato usually too firm. boil first / cut smaller?

Classic traditional thanksgiving stuffing
https://www.averiecooks.com/classic-traditional-thanksgiving-stuffing/
INGREDIENTS
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, divided
1 pound day-old white French bread, diced into 1/2-inch cubes and dried
1 extra-large (about 2 1/2 cups) sweet Vidalia or yellow onion, diced small
1 1/2 cups celery, diced small
2/3 cup Italian flat-leaf parsley leaves, finely minced
1/4 cup fresh sage leaves, finely minced
3 tablespoons fresh rosemary (sticks discarded), finely minced
2 tablespoons fresh thyme (sticks discarded), finely minced
1 teaspoon salt, or to taste
1 teaspoon pepper, or to taste
2 1/2 cups low-sodium chicken broth, divided
2 large eggs
INSTRUCTIONS
Preheat oven to 250F. Place cubed bread on a baking sheet and bake, stirring occasionally, until dried out, about 45 minutes. You must begin with very dry bread or it’ll turn to mush. Tip – To save time on the day of, bake and dry out the bread the night before and leave uncovered on the counter uncovered until the morning you’re ready to make the stuffing.
When you’re ready to make the stuffing, transfer bread to a very large bowl; set aside.
Preheat oven to 350F and spray a 9×13-inch pan or 3-quart baking dish with cooking spray; set aside.
To a large skillet, add 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter and heat over medium-high heat to melt.
Add the onions, celery, and cook until vegetables have softened and are just beginning to lightly brown, about 10 minutes. Stir frequently. Transfer vegetables to bowl with bread.
Add the parsley, sage, rosemary, thyme, salt, pepper, 1 1/4 cups chicken broth, and toss well to combine; set aside. Note about salt – the saltiness level of low-sodium chicken broth varies, and so do personal preferences, so salt to taste.
To a small bowl, add the remaining 1 1/4 cups chicken broth, 2 eggs, and whisk to combine. Pour mixture over bread and toss well to combine. Turn mixture out into prepared baking dish.
Dice the remaining 1/4 cup (half of 1 stick) butter into 8 to 10 pieces and evenly dot the butter over the top of the stuffing. Cover with foil and bake for 40 minutes. Uncover and bake for an additional 40 to 45 minutes, or until top is as lightly golden browned as desired. Serve immediately. Stuffing is best warm and fresh but will keep airtight in the fridge for up to 5 days. Reheat gently as desired.

- oven staling dried it out too much; after air staling the stuffing was nice and mushy
- fresh herbs was much better
- made again for thanksgiving 2020, turned out OK. vegan this time
    - chicken broth -> veg broth
    - butter -> vegan butter
    - egg -> simmered shredded apple abomination that was supposed to be apple sauce (+ cinnamon)
- don't forget to watch when it's uncovered so that it doesn't burn

Honey garlic salmon
INGREDIENTS
4 wild caught salmon fillets about 1/2 pound or 250 grams each, skin off or on
Salt and pepper, to season
1/2 teaspoon paprika (mild, sweet or smokey)
2 tablespoons butter
4 cloves garlic, finely chopped or minced
4 tablespoons honey
1 tablespoon water
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon fresh squeezed lemon juice, (plus extra to serve)
Lemon wedges to serve
INSTRUCTIONS
Arrange oven shelf to the middle of your oven. Preheat oven to broil/grill settings on medium heat. 
Season salmon with salt, pepper and paprika. Set aside.
Heat the butter in a skillet or pan over medium-high heat until melted. Add the garlic and sauté for about a minute, until fragrant. Pour in the honey, water and soy sauce; allow the flavours to heat through and combine. Add in the lemon juice; stir well to combine all of the flavours together.
Add the salmon steaks to the sauce in the pan; cook each fillet (skin-side down if there's any skin) for 3-4 minutes or until golden, while basting the tops with the pan juices. Season with salt and pepper, to taste (if desired).
Optional -- Add the lemon wedges around the salmon (adds a stronger lemon taste). 
Baste salmon one more time then transfer the pan to your oven to broil / grill for a further 5-6 minutes, or until the tops of the salmon are nicely charred, and the salmon is cooked to your liking.
To serve, drizzle with the sauce and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve with steamed vegetables; over rice or with a salad.

- small pan keeps the salmon submerged in the sauce


Dan Dan noodles
see https://thewoksoflife.com/dan-dan-noodles/

- don't overcook noodles / rinse them in cold water after, or they stick together
- lao gan ma was a good substitute for chili oil, but didn't give the same mouth tingle as making it from scratch
- sub peanut butter for tahini; recipe calls for a *lot* of oil which you can go lighter on (if using lao gan ma, a few tbsp was good)
